well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
the 60s and music and Woodstock mainly
Woodstock what it was what it was meant
to be what it became why it's viewed as
an icon in this cultural moment you know
we see it looking back because of the
way it gets portrayed in movies and how
it all gets blended together as
everything by decades we see it as the
Summer of Love and that's what it was
right
No Summer of Love was two years before
on the other side of the country now
with the San Francisco Haight and
Ashbury 1969 was when some enterprising
individuals attempted to package that
movement package the flower children
turn them into a product capitalized on
it
Woodstock was set out to be a
money-making venture that's what it was
it's a concert wasn't intended to be a
free concert tickets were sold the
ticket price wasn't cheap in today's
money be about 150 bucks a ticket
Woodstock wasn't held in Woodstock it
the town of Woodstock was one of the
initial locations that they were
considering it felt through but they
kept that name because that name was
associated with Bob Dylan who lived in
Woodstock the concert was 70 miles away
they kept that name to keep that
association even though Bob Dylan was
never actually going to play there the
concert itself was just an unmitigated
disaster
it really was they had planned for
roughly
50,000 people about half a million
showed up so at some point they just
couldn't handle the tickets they
couldn't handle the gates so it became a
free concert because they just took it
the traffic backing up had the governor
Governor Rockefeller calling the
promoters tell him he's gonna send out
10,000 National Guardsmen the money that
they did make on the tickets that had to
get spent using helicopters to fly in
food it was just a disaster even the
lineup Jimi Hendrix had a thing in his
contract said he had to be the final act
he was the headliner but he had to be
the last act so even though there were
roughly half a million people there at
one point he played to a crowd of about
30,000 because everybody else had
already left Creedence Clearwater
Revival they wound up playing at like
3:00 a.m. everybody was asleep it was a
disaster even from the standpoint of the
people who put the concert on they lost
money they lost money they didn't
actually make turn a profit until I want
to say the 80s off of residual income
from merchandise stuff like that the
with all of this in mind why is it an
icon why is it this iconic moment
because of free love right because the
revolution that revolution that happened
because of birth control and the pill no
no unmarried women didn't have the right
to the pill until 1972 Supreme Court
gave to him I want to say at the time of
Woodstock I can be off a little bit here
but roughly half the states didn't allow
unmarried woman to
the pill it wasn't that it was what
would start gave us maybe I probably had
something to do with it Woodstock gave
us punk rock I know it doesn't make
sense the who played at Woodstock and
they got a lot of publicity don't get me
wrong they had plenty before but they
got more Woodstock and The Who
their song my generation it was the mod
anthem but listen to it you can hear the
roots of punk in it and Woodstock helped
to catapult them but surely there was
something more there is they didn't get
packaged the ideas of the sixties which
are a lot of the ideas that end up
getting advocated on this channel they
survived nobody was able to market it
package it and sell it tried but they
weren't buying they just walked through
the gates and then there was half a
million people almost half a million
people for three days
no visible security no real authority
just people sharing music ideas food a
lot of other substances no rope of the
Highlands it wasn't chaos so look back
is beautiful defining moment that's what
it was that's why I became a cultural
phenomenon because it proved the ideas
valid on some level yeah you can say
there was definitely outside support in
many ways and yeah that's true but that
little town wound up becoming almost say
the fifth largest city
in the state of New York for those
couple of days with no real police just
people no fear just love and it was all
started because somebody tried to market
it it was the last great victory of that
movement
that's why it's remembered that way you
know hunter s Thompson said that the
high-water mark was Haight Ashbury
was the Summer of Love looking back with
the benefit of hindsight I think he
called it a little too soon because even
though people were trying to market that
culture that subculture they couldn't
not really because the subculture wasn't
playing along that is why Woodstock
became important that's why it is in
history books anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night